[DOCS] 8.3.3 Release notes (#2202)
elastic/security-docs: docs/release-notes/8.3.asciidoc

[[release-notes-header-8.3.0]]
== 8.3

[discrete]
[[release-notes-8.3.3]]
=== 8.3.3

[discrete]
[[bug-fixes-8.3.3]]
==== Bug fixes and enhancements

> * Fixes a bug that prevented the *Create field* button from appearing in the Fields menu when you accessed it from a Timeline created using the Alerts page's *Open in timeline* button ({pull}135842[#135842]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes a bug that prevented the *Create field* button from appearing in the Fields browser when you accessed it from a Timeline created using the Alerts page's *Open in timeline* button ({pull}135842[#135842]).
```

* Removes the unsupported `matches` operator from the *Add Rule Exception* flyout ({pull}136340[#136340]).

> * Prevents Rule Execution Log events from being wrongly ordered when max events are hit and events are filtered by status ({pull}131675[#131675]).

Reviewer 2: If I missed a reason to cap this LMK! Also double check my revision to ensure it's accurate please :)
```suggestion
* Prevents rule execution log events from being wrongly ordered when the maximum number of events are reached and events are filtered by status ({pull}131675[#131675]).
```

Author: @banderror @vitaliidm would one of you mind verifying that this revision is correct from a technical standpoint? Thank you!

Reviewer 3: @nastasha-solomon we used to call it `Rule Execution Log` in our tickets because it refers to a certain area in the codebase that serves as a foundation for a number of features in the app, so it's basically a title for us. Lowercase here LGTM 👍

> * Isolates the query used for the *First seen*, and *Last seen* fields on the Users, Hosts, and Network details pages to improve page load times and UI performance ({pull}133539[#133539]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Isolates the query used for the *First seen* and *Last seen* fields on the Users, Hosts, and Network details pages to improve page load times and UI performance ({pull}133539[#133539]).
```

> * Isolates the query used for the *First seen* and *Last seen* fields on the Users, Hosts, and Network details pages to improve page load times and UI performance ({pull}133539[#133539]).

Author: Verified with @jamster10 that this PR needs to be removed from the 8.3.3 release notes. It will need to be doc'd as a fixed bug in the [8.4.0 release notes](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/issues/2175) though.

[discrete]
[[release-notes-8.3.2]]
=== 8.3.2

[discrete]
[[known-issue-8.3.2]]
==== Known issue

> * The `matches` operator in the *Add Rule Exception* flyout does not work because wildcard matches are not supported for rule exceptions. Using the `matches` operator will cause rule exceptions and their associated rules to fail. You can restore failed rules by deleting the unsupported exception and refreshing the rule ({issue}136340[#136340]).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The `matches` operator in the *Add Rule Exception* flyout does not work because wildcard matches are not supported for rule exceptions. Using the `matches` operator will cause rule exceptions and their associated rules to fail. You can restore failed rules by deleting unsupported exceptions and refreshing the rules ({issue}136340[#136340]).
```

. Select the same rules, then click *Bulk actions -> Enable*.
+
NOTE: After you've re-enabled the affected rules, the rules' *Last Response* values will change to `Pending` and then update to `Active` or `OK`.
+
. Go to the next page of results in the rules table and repeat steps 1 through 6.

*Restore affected custom rules only (optional)*

> NOTE: This is an alternative option for users who have only enabled custom rules and or duplicated and enabled prebuilt rules.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: This is an alternative option for users who have only enabled custom rules and/or duplicated and enabled prebuilt rules.
```

. Go to the *Rules* page (*Detect -> Rules*) and click *Elastic rules*.
. Switch on the *Technical preview* toggle above the table.
. In the rules table, click *Custom rules*.
. Sort the rules table by the *Last Response* column to show the latest rule statuses.
. Select rules with the `Failed` status, then click *Bulk actions -> Tags -> Add Tags*.
. Add a new tag, for example `rules_to_fix`. This will generate new API keys and resolve the bug.
+
On the next scheduled rule execution, the *Last Response* value for the rule will change to `Pending`, and then to `Active` or `OK`.

*The `matches` operator is not supported for rule exceptions*

> * The `matches` operator in the *Add Rule Exception* flyout does not work because wildcard matches are not supported for rule exceptions. Using the `matches` operator will cause rule exceptions and their associated rules to fail. You can restore failed rules by deleting the unsupported exception and refreshing the rule ({issue}136340[#136340]).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The `matches` operator in the *Add Rule Exception* flyout does not work because wildcard matches are not supported for rule exceptions. Using the `matches` operator will cause rule exceptions and their associated rules to fail. You can restore failed rules by deleting the unsupported exceptions and refreshing the rules ({issue}136340[#136340]).
```

*Restore affected custom rules only (optional)*

> NOTE: This is an alternative option for users who have only enabled custom rules and or duplicated and enabled prebuilt rules.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: This is an alternative option for users who have only enabled custom rules and/or duplicated and enabled prebuilt rules.
```

On the next scheduled rule execution, the *Last Response* value for the rule will change to `Pending`, and then to `Active` or `OK`.

*The `matches` operator is not supported for rule exceptions*

> * The `matches` operator in the *Add Rule Exception* flyout does not work because wildcard matches are not supported for rule exceptions. Using the `matches` operator will cause rule exceptions and their associated rules to fail. You can restore failed rules by deleting the unsupported exception and refreshing the rule ({issue}136340[#136340]).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The `matches` operator in the *Add Rule Exception* flyout does not work because wildcard matches are not supported for rule exceptions. Using the `matches` operator will cause rule exceptions and their associated rules to fail. You can restore failed rules by deleting the unsupported exceptions and refreshing the rules ({issue}136340[#136340]).
```
